Tizen (/ˈtaɪzɛn/) is an open source operating system based on the Linux kernel and the GNU C Library implementing the Linux API. It is controlled by Samsung and also backed by Intel,[3] and works on a wide range of Samsung devices including smartphones, tablets, in-vehicle infotainment (IVI) devices, smart TVs, PCs, smart cameras, wearable computing (such as smartwatches), Blu-ray players, printers and smart home appliances[4] (such as refrigerators, lighting, washing machines, air conditioners, ovens/microwaves and a robotic vacuum cleaner[5]). Tizen is a project within the Linux Foundation and is governed by a Technical Steering Group (TSG).
The roots of Tizen date back to 2007 with the creation of the LiMo Foundation. The LiMo project resulted in the LiMo Platform in 2009 but it was unsuccessful against rival open source platforms from the Open Handset Alliance (led by Google) and Symbian Foundation (led by Nokia). In 2010 Samsung was developing the Samsung Linux Platform (SLP) for the LiMo Foundation, whilst Intel and Nokia were leading the MeeGo project, another open source Linux mobile OS.[6] In 2011 the MeeGo project was abandoned by its peers with Intel joining forces with Samsung to create Tizen, a new project based on code from SLP. The Linux Foundation also cancelled support of MeeGo in favor of Tizen. Later in 2013 Samsung merged its homegrown Bada project into Tizen.[7]
The Tizen Association was formed to guide the industry role of Tizen, including requirements gathering, identifying and facilitating service models, and overall industry marketing and education.[8] Members of the Tizen Association represent major sectors of the mobility industry, from numerous areas of the world. Current members include telecommunications network operators and electronics manufacturers: Fujitsu, Huawei, Intel, KT, NEC Casio, NTT DoCoMo, Orange, Panasonic, Samsung, SK Telecom, Sprint and Vodafone.[9] While the Tizen Association decides what needs to be done in Tizen, the Technical Steering Group determines what code is actually incorporated into the operating system to accomplish those goals.
Samsung is the only Tizen member incorporating and developing the operating system, increasingly distributing it to its products. As of 2016 Samsung is planning on making Tizen its main operating system on all smartphones, replacing Android.[10] As of Q1 2017 Tizen is second largest smartwatch platform, behind watchOS and ahead of Android Wear.[11]

